# Political Priest Analysis by the Author

Steven notes in response to my initial question that he does not in fact have to keep political issues to himself in the Church context, _well \[voc\] er no_ (line 6), even though the church is very nervous about people being involved in politics (Excerpt 6.2, lines 10–11). He follows this answer with an explanatory narrative (lines 7–15) confirming his earlier point. I align with Steven by pre-empting his likely answer, _how do i do that_ (line 19), joining in with the creation of his story and aligning with the fact that his religious and political identities appear inseparable. Steven then continues, evaluating and providing a resolution (lines 20–31).

This narrative fits broadly into the classic Labovian structure (Labov and Waletzky 1967), as outlined below:

1. Orientation: _i remember when i was when i was being interviewed for the church_ (lines 7–8)
2. Complication: _and um \[tut\] er the bishop asked me … out of the pulpit_ (lines 12–14)
3. Evaluation: _because i don’t believe that … preached anything else_ (lines 20–24)
4. Resolution: _i said what i would do my best to do … have to vote labour_ (lines 27–31)
5. Coda: _times i’ve been tempted to stand up and say don’t vote labour_ (lines 34–35)

The nature of the semi-structured interview, with generally short questions and longer answers, invites structured narratives of this kind (Labov 1972; Labov and Waletzky 1967). The purpose of the narrative is to outline the conflict Steven went through in negotiating his professional and political selves. The question he was asked by the bishop, _do you think you can keep politics out of the pulpit_ (line 14), highlights concern at the higher levels of the Church about the role of politics within it and the consequent constraints under which Steven must operate. It in a way shows a conflict between the institution that authorises his identity as a minister, and other aspects of his identity such as his Labour membership.

Steven continues with a sophisticated answer to address this complicating factor, tying religion and politics closely together and providing the basis for the intersection within his own identity: _i think faith and politics are actually completely intertwined_ (lines 21–22) and _jesus preached politics as much as he preached anything else_ (lines 23–24). Returning to the first part of his narrative, Steven provides a resolution by noting that he told the bishop that he would keep party politics out of the pulpit (line 28). Here Steven appeals to the distinction between two kinds of politics, ‘big P’ state governance and ‘small p’ everyday politics (see Chapter 1); Steven accepts that party issues and partisan interests have no place in the religious domain, though more general political issues remain an important concern.

The coda comes at the end of the narrative in the form of humour. This arises through an incongruity with Steven stating he is not always loyal to Labour (lines 34–35) despite his confirmed party membership. This elicits laughter from me (line 37) and returns us to the flow of the questioning in present time (Labov and Waletzky 1967).

The evaluation section of the narrative acts as evaluation in a stance taking sense. The epistemic stance token _i think_ (line 21; Aijmer 1997; Kärkkäinen 2003) indicates a stance that evaluates the intertwining of faith and politics within his professional context, but also within himself as a feature of his identity, especially so when taken in context with his subsequent stance taking. The falling intonation of his repeated _i think_ indicates that Steven is expressing confidence (Coates 1987, p. 116) and is an example of ‘deliberative’ rather than ‘tentative’ I think (Holmes 1985). This stance positions Steven as both religious and political and serves to diverge from those who would argue that the two should be kept separate, as is the implied position of the bishop in the case of Steven’s narrative.