# Building Site Analysis by the Author

Max shows off his new drill to his supervisor, Tom. In being protective of his new tool, stating that _we have to label them i guess_ (5) so as not to get his mixed up with others, Max initiates a humorous exchange by making a statement that he likely knows will get a reaction, _mine will be the cleanest_ (6). Max’s utterance functions as an opening for a humorous response from Tom, given it violates an unspoken expectation on the building site: equipment is meant to be used and a dirty drill is an indicator of a well-used tool of the trade and thus symbolic of an effective builder. A dirty drill, in essence, functions as material representation of membership as a builder in this CofP. In response to Max, Tom says _i’ll fix that_ (7, 9), making an implicit light-hearted threat to deface Max’s new drill. The implied threat, a competitive humorous utterance, can be interpreted as indexing a stereotypically masculine stance. Dirtying Max’s new drill functions as a reaffirmation of his status within the group, with Tom offering to ‘initiate’ him and his work tool again.

[This excerpt] provides a clear example of how a humorous threat indicates CofP membership status. This sort of exchange is normal and amusing for these two builders; threatening to deface someone’s main work tool is not taken as seriously as it could be in other workplace contexts. Amusement is indicated by Max’s laughter (8, 10); obviously having a pristine drill on this building site is a laughable notion. The matter of Max’s drill and its initiation is later revisited. This exchange is ostensibly gendered, through threatening or aggressive stances indexing stereotypical masculinity in this context.